Okay, so that's our first part here.
We've evaluated this,
we've modified our HTML.
So the next thing that I like to do
is I like to simplify the CSS and
add our standard styles,
because of course, the person who built
this audio player wrote a lot of
CSS that we actually don't need.
True?
So tell me, what do we not need?
>> The border.
>> Pardon?
>> The border,
we definitely don't need the border.
What else don't we need?
>> The button styles.
>> Some of these button styles,
we definitely don't need those.
During just sort of scroll through here.
If you're not sure about it,
you can leave it, right?
But some of this stuff,
we can definitely delete.
So for example, body,
we already have a body style, right?
It's coming from our base,
so we can delete that.
If you're scared, just comment it out.
There's nothing wrong with that, okay?
Button styling,
I'm gonna leave that for now.
We may come back to that.
But there's a paragraph down here,
we definitely don't need that.
Okay, and it's gonna start falling apart.
Don't panic, don't panic, never panic.
Okay, and the other thing that we're
going to need now is our base styles.
So the base styles that we've been
building all along with magenta lime,
let's go grab those and bring them in.
So if we take a look at
our ending CodePen here,
I'm just gonna open
that up in another tab.
And what we wanna copy from this
is just the base styles here.
Copy that, and drop that on into our
audio file right up here at the top.
So that it will play a lot of styling
to this page immediately, right?
Because that's how we wrote all that
flexible CSS to just apply to stuff.
Look how much work that
already just saved us.
Amazing, isn't it?
Okay, as for the rest of these styles,
we can set up a layer.
I'm gonna call it audio,
because that's what it is.
And we'll wrap that layer around
everything else that's here to keep our
styles organized.
So let's make a few modifications
here to some of these styles now, and
we'll start with the, Button here.
We're gonna delete the width and
the height and this float left.
We don't do floats really
with layouts anymore.
[LAUGH] Just get rid of the width,
the height, and
the float down here on the bottom.
That's gonna make those a little
bit bigger, but that's okay.
We'll deal with that in a little while.
Now, take a look at the audio player
container that's here and the before.
So one of the things that
you'll see going on here,
here's a background color of white.
Yeah, we definitely don't want that,
so let's get rid of that.
Now, we have a cool rainbow.
So awesome, but so
not what we want, right?
Where is that?
>> Linear gradient.
>> That's this linear
gradient thing going on?
Yeah, so we get rid of that.
Hey, not so bad?
Not so bad, getting better and better.
So let's leave the rest of this just for
the moment.
One of the things you might notice that
we have right now is the font, right?
The font is totally wrong.
Why is that?
Anybody have a guess?
We put in our base styles,
we've called for those fonts, right?
What might be missing?
>> A variable.
>> We've got the variable,
we've got the variable.
It's right here in the base, yeah?
So we've called for it.
We should at least see the default
body font here, but that's not it.
What's going on?
>> Do we need to go to the Settings > CSS,
and then [INAUDIBLE].
>> That's exactly it, the settings, right?
We have to actually link to those files.
So if you go into your Audio player here>
go into Settings> we'll go into CSS,
there's a long URL right here,
we can just copy that.
And we can paste that into
our Audio player under CSS,
Under External Stylesheets.
Here we go.
Okay, getting closer, okay?
So now, let's go on and start writing
some more styles that we've got here.
We can continue to modify these styles
as we go with whatever it is that we
wanna have here.
But for now,
let's just continue to modify this.
So what we wanna do is,
if we take a look at our HTML again,
we need to set up our grid such that
we've got the name of the track,
the button, and the Track 7,
right, all on one row.
And we said we wanted to put the player
and the volume all on one row.
So let's take a look at that and see
if we can make that kinda stuff happen.
So what would be my selector for this?
I'm gonna set our styling.
Let's put it here at
the top of the audio file.
So what's my selector for this?
>> Name-play?
>> Yeah, so my class of name-play.
So what I might do here is say
audio-player-container.name-play.
And we can set this up
to display as a grid.
We, very big, okay?
Then we wanna have some grid
template columns, right?
Grid-template-columns, now do
we want those all the same size?
1fr 1fr 1fr,
Anybody have any opinions?
>> We want the play area to take up 2fr,
and then maybe 1fr and
1fr on the other side.
>> We could do it.
That would make a very
big fat play button, and
we'd have little skinny text on the sides,
right?
We actually want bigger text and
smaller button, right?
Yeah, so what if we did
instead something like 2fr and
2fr, that'll sort of squeeze
it down a little bit, and
then maybe even we can squeeze
it down even further as 0.75 fr.
Okay, That's
a reasonable first pass at this.
And then we could say something like,
we could give it a little bit of a gap,
1rem.
We could give it a little margin, 1rem.
Okay, so we're sort of getting
things in the right spots.
These aren't completely styled yet.
One other thing we could add here would
be a font-family: var(---cursive).
Okay, that's cool.
Okay, easier than you thought, right?
Okay, so how about the rest of this?
Now, we have controls down here.
Yeah, we need to get our play slider and
our volume next to each other.
So what would be our selectors for that?
>> Controls.
>> .controls, okay?
Good, and
what are we gonna put in here for that?
Should we use grid again?
Sure, why not?
Do we want those even?
>> No.
>> Probably not, right?
Probably want this one
bigger than that one?
Maybe two-thirds, one-third, yeah?
Okay, so our grid-template-columns
will be something like 2fr, 1fr.
Okay, Well, those look a little bit funky.
What's going on here,
why does it look a little bit funky?
>> They're not aligned.
>> Yeah, they're not in line, why is that?
>> Looks like the volume sliders
sitting on top of the Mute button.
>> It does, yeah, so
we have this big 0 margin going on here.
Maybe there's something with that,
we could try taking that out.
See if that helps.
Could be that my window
isn't big enough yet.
Maybe not, and
we can just keep on going for the moment,
because we'll have some
more tweaking to do.
So sometimes, the stuff doesn't present
itself to be obvious from the beginning.
But generally speaking, we're trying to
hack this to get things into the right
spots broadly speaking, and then we'll
clean it up and make it prettier.
Okay, so we've got that our
controls sort of generally next
to each other now with the volume itself,
right?
We actually have three
children on that volume.
We have an output, we have an input,
and we have a button, okay?
So that's what's going on over here.
That's why this isn't quite lining up.
So maybe we need to add another
layer here of displaying grid.
So after our controls here,
let's add audio-player-container .volume.
We'll lay that as grid too.
And we can say our grid-template-columns
are 0.15fr 1fr 0.15.
That made it really tiny, okay?
So now, we have our number, we have our
slider, we have our volume down over here.
And back here on our controls,
let's add a couple more things.
Let's add a gap of 1rem, and
let's add a margin of 1rem.
Now, for our volume, These things
aren't quite all on the same line.
We'd probably like them
to be on the same line.
Anybody have any idea how I could get them
to be all kind of all on the same line?
>> Align content.
>> Yeah, so
we've got a couple of properties here.
We've got justify-content: center; and
we've got aligne-items.
Center, and that's gonna help bring
this into a straight line, right?
Once it's there, now we can play
around with the volume size.
We're gonna get there even though
it's ridiculously tiny right now.
I totally see that.
Then let's do the same thing for
our play slider.
So we've got the volume there,
we've got the play-slider next to it.
Let's do that exact same kind of
thing here for this play-slider.
So our audio-player-container
.play-slider.
So this is here in our HTML,
we have our time,
our slider, and
the other time on the end of it.
Let's use grid to bring that
all into the same line as well.
And to do that, we're gonna display, grid,
grid-template-columns: 0.5fr 1fr 0.5fr,
and we'll do the same thing again for
the same reason.
We'll justify-content: center; and
we'll align,
-items: center; to bring
everything into line.
See how much nicer that all looks?
We're getting closer, and closer,
and closer to a good layout.
We have just gone through here and
put grids inside of grids inside of grids,
haven't we?
To get everything to lay out.
So that's totally legal.
You can put grids inside
of grids all day long.
So just try to think of that.
Everywhere you go inside of your HTML,
we need these things to group
together in the same line.
So we'll group them together, and
we'll lay that out with a grid.
Now, that group of things and
that group of things have to lay
out together in the same line.
So we lay that out with grid, make sense?
We just keep going until
we run out of elements.
[LAUGH] Laying everything out.